---
title: Finite Automata
---

!!!Theorem

    The class of regular languages is closed under the union operation

    In other words, if $A_1$ and $A_2$ are regular languages, so is $A_1 \cup A_2$

**Proof Idea:** construct a machine $M$ simulate $M_1$ and $M_2$ at the same time. Remember the state that each machin would be in, by $k_1 \time k_2$ states.

The **proof** should be writen **Formally**, which means that we should construct the quintuple by definiton

!!!Theorem

    The class of regular languages is closed under the concatenation operation.
    
    In other words, if $A_1$ and $A_2$ are regular languages then so is $A_1 \circ A_2$.

To solve the problem we meet in the proof (we don't know when zhe first piece end and the second begins), we introduce a new technique called nondeterminism

## Nondeterminism


In a **nondeterministic** machine, several choices may exist for the next state at any point. Actually, nondeterminism is a generalization of determinism.

> abbreviate NFA, DFA for

- The NFA is an arrow with the lable $\epsilon$.

**How does an NFA compute?** Splits!

> If a state with an $\epsilon$ symbol on an exiting arrow is encountered, something similar happens. Without reading any input, the machine splits into multiple copies, one following each of the exiting $\epsilon$-labeled arrows and one staying at the current state.

Nondeterminism may be viewed as a kind of **parallel computation** or as a tree of **possibilities**



!!!warning
    if reached accept state and can't move to other states, then reject.

!!!Example
    An alphabet containing only one symbol is called a **unary alphabet**

!!!Definition "Formal Definition"

    What different is the transition function

    $$ \delta: Q \times \Sigma_\epsilon \to \mathcal{P}(Q)$$

We will show, every NFA can be converted into an equivalent DFA, and constructing NFAs is sometimes easier.

**Proof Idea:** Use the power set as the set of the states.

!!!Corollary

    A language is regular if and only is some nondeterministic finite automaton recongizes it

Using this equivalance, we can easily prove that **the regular language close under the regular operations**

## Regular Expressions

We use the regular operation to build up expressions describing languages. The value of a regular expression is a language.

!!! Example "Application"
    Regular expressions provide a powerful method for describing such patterns.

!!! Definition "Formal Definition"

    Say that $R$ is a regular expression if $R$ is 
    
    - $a$ for some $a$ in alphabet $\Sigma$
    - $\epsilon$, contains only the empty string
    - $\emptyset$, doesn't contain any strings
    - $(R_1 \cup R_2)$, where $R_1$ and $R_2$ are regular expressions 
    - $(R_1 \circ R_2)$, where $R_1$ and $R_2$ are regular expressions 
    - $(R_1^*)$, where $R_1$ is a regular expression

!!!Warning
    
    $R\cup\epsilon$ may not equal R

    $R \circ \emptyset$ may not equal R

!!!Theorem "Equivalence with Finite Automata"

    A language is regular if and only if some regular expression describes it

It is easy to prove the $\Leftarrow$ part by construction. To prove the $\Rightarrow$ part, we describe a procedure for converting DFAs into equivalent regular expressions.

We need the **generalized nondeterministic finite automaton, GNFA**. 

$$DFAs \Rightarrow GNFAs \Rightarrow Regular \ expression$$

The difference between the NFA and GNFA is the transition arrows. In the GNFA, the transition arrows may have **any regular expressions as labels**. GNFA reads **blocks** of symbols from input.

## Nonregular Languages

!!!Theorem "The Pumping Lemma"

    If $A$ is a regular language, then there is a number $p$ (the pumping length) where if $s$ is any string in $A$ of length at least $p$, then $s$ may be divided into there pieces, $s = xyz$, satisfing the following conditions

    - for each $i \geq 0$, $xy^iz \in A$
    - $|y| > 0$, and
    - $|xy| \leq p$

!!!Example

    The following languages are nonregular

    - $\{0^n1^n \mid n \geq 0\}$
    - $\{w \mid w\text{ has equal number of 0s and 1s}\}$
    - $\{ww\mid w \in \{0,1\}^*\}$
    - $\{1^{n^2} \mid n\geq 0\}$
    - $\{0^j1^j \mid i > j\}$
  
    The result before all can be proved by the pumping lemma, the last one need the **"pumping down method"**.


